[VOICE OVER] Let’s explore four best
practices you should be following
when working with sensitive credit
card information electronically.
First, make sure you are securing access
to the system.
Think of your front door.
How secure would the contents inside your
home be if you didn’t have a lock on the door?
Securing access starts with using strong passwords.
In general, here are some vital recommendations
about passwords:
● Never reuse passwords
● Don’t be predictable, get creative
● Don’t create derivatives, like using the same
word but just changing the number on the end
● The longer the password, the harder it is to crack
● Whenever possible use a passphrase, which is
a collection of words and spaces that are familiar to you,
of at least 25-characters.
A passphrase is easier for you to remember but much more
secure against the software used to crack passwords.
An example could be, “My high school mascot says hoot hoot”
A second best practice is to secure valuable cardholder
information by means of encryption.
When you aren’t actively using that information on your
system, make sure it’s saved in an encrypted format.
A third best practice involves the proper storage of
cardholder data on your computer.
Never save full 16-digit card numbers on your system,
although truncated card data
(only the last four digits of a card number)
is okay to store.
Additionally, don’t ever store the three-digit or
four-digit security codes or any security PINs.
This includes using any spreadsheet, word processing,
presentation, database, or accounting programs
to store credit card data.
Even if the files from any of those programs are
named in a way to avoid detection and password-protected,
the cardholder data can still be easily found and stolen
by experienced hackers.
The fourth best practice is to use caution when handling
or storing cardholder data on removable devices,
like thumb drives or external hard drives.
A common misconception is that putting full cardholder
data on such a device is safe.
It’s not! They can be easily misplaced or stolen.
If the data is not encrypted, it is open to whoever
finds or gets their hands on it.
Additionally, any information stored on removable
devices becomes visible to the entire network
when connected to your computer.
If a hacker has already gotten into your
organization’s network, they will be able
to retrieve all of that information.
Therefore, it’s best to avoid removable
media whenever possible.